h2. What is it?

I couldn't find anything up to date that worked on rails that was paranoid about escaping and protecting the shell so I wrote my own.

I'm actively using this on my project called Servly.

h2. Notes

You can call 'live' RRD graphs (ie when a page loads, have an Ajax.Updater load another page that actually graphs the RRd you want)
This works fine under my tests with graphing about 7 RRD's at the same time.

h2. Todo

Actually write some tests...

h2. Installing rails_rrdtool

cd vendor/plugins && git clone git://github.com/bluescripts/rails_rrdtool.git rails_rrdtool

If you intend on using this in your rails app you need to (or should) put these inside your application_controller.rb file
<pre>
	# path to RRD tool in your environment.... /opt/local/bin is for MAC OSX ports
	def rrd_tool
	    if RAILS_ENV=="development"
	      return "/opt/local/bin/rrdtool"
	    else
	      return "rrdtool"
	    end
	  end
	  # the path to your RRD store (if your app was in /home/app it would go to /home/app/rrd/)
	  def rrd_path
	      return  Dir.pwd << "/rrd/"
	  end
	  
	  # the path to your RRD images 
	  def rrd_image_path
	      return  Dir.pwd << "/public/rrd/"
	  end
	  
	  # the web path to your RRD images
	  def rrd_image_url
	    if RAILS_ENV=="development"
	      return "/rrd/"
	    else
	      return "/rrd/"
	    end
	   end
</pre>

h2. Creating a RRD

RRD.create(path,params)

example usage:
<pre>
 RRD.create('/test.rrd', {:step => 300, :heartbeat => 600, :ds => [  {:name => "test", :type => "GAUGE"},
 {:name => "josh", :type => "GAUGE"} ]  , :xff => ".5",
 :rra => [ {:type => "max", :steps => 20, :rows => 1} ] })
</pre>

first value is a path to the rrd db, the 2nd param is a hash of keys and values

:ds is an array containing hashes for each DataSource (DS) type in the db

:xff is the x files factor (see RRD website for more info on this), range is acceptable between 0 and 1

:rra is a array containing hashes with RRA types and corresponding values

h2. Updating a RRD

RRD.update(path,params)

example usage:
<pre>

 RD.update('/test/path.rrd', ["123", "456", 1234])

</pre>

RRD.update('/test/path.rrd', ["123", "456a", 1234])

first param is path to rrd db

2nd param will return data string of 123:456:1234 (each value is sanitized, only numeric values accepted)

to be passed as the data values to be passed to the db

h2. Graphing a RRD

example usage:
<pre>

 RRD.graph('/test/path.rrd','/test/path.png', {:ago => Time.now.advance(:hours => -12),
 :width => 500, :height => 200, :image_type => "PNG", :title => "Memory 12hr test",
 :defs => [ {:key => "free", :type => "AVERAGE", :rpn => "AREA", :color => "C32227",
 :title => "Free Memory" }, {:key => "used", :type => "AVERAGE", :rpn => "AREA", :color => "932D0C",
 :title => "Used Memory" } ] , :base => 1024, :vlabel => "gb", :lowerlimit => 0})

</pre>

first param is path to rrd

second param is path to store graphed image

third is hash of params

variables for DEF's are taken care of programatically
_*Required params*_
:ago is when to start from, a Time object ( Time.now )
:width, :height
:image_type
:title
    :defs => array of hashes
        * [:defs][:key] => The DB data key
        * [:defs][:type] => RRA Type
        * [:defs][:rpn] => RPN Type
        * [:defs][:color] => Hex Color: (accepts: 001122 but not #001122)
        * [:defs][:title] => Title for this DEF
_*Optional params*_
:base
:vlabel
:lowerlimit
:upperlimit